# Integrate CADA

This guide provides the essential steps to configure and integrate the CADA (Cosmos Avail DA) module with a Cosmos SDK-based application.

## Configuration

The default configuration file for the CADA module can be found [here](./config.md). Customize this file by updating the values to match your specific requirements.

## Validator Key and Keyring Type Setup

To configure the CADA module, users are required to export the validatorKey and keyringType environment variables.

**ValidatorKey**: Specifies the name of the key associated with the validator node.

**KeyringBackend**: Specifies where the key is stored. Common options include "test" for testing purposes or "os" for using the operating system’s keyring in production. By default, the keyring-backend is set to "test".

Export the ValidatorKey and KeyringBackend by running the following commands:

```sh
export VALIDATOR_KEY="alice"
export KEYRING_BACKEND="os"
```

Ensure that these values are correctly configured before proceeding with further steps.

## Integration with SDK-Based Applications

To integrate CADA into your Cosmos SDK-based application, follow these steps:

- Ensure you are using the latest version of Go for full compatibility.
- Add the CADA module to your application's app.go file.
- Export the values of the VALIDATOR_KEY and KEYRING_BACKEND environment variables.
- Modify the [configuration file](./config.md) to set how data is posted to the Avail network.

For a detailed walkthrough,refer to this [integration guide](./integration.md).

## Integrating CADA with Spawn-Generated Code

For detailed instructions on integrating the CADA module into code generated by `spawn`, please refer to the [integration guide](./spawn.md).

## To run CADA on local

To run the CADA module locally, follow these steps:

1. **Initialize the Chain**: Use the provided [script](/simapp/init-chain.sh) to set up the chain for local development. Run the following command:

```bash
bash /simapp/init-chain.sh
```

After the initialization process is complete, you can start the chain by running:

```sh
cada start
```

These steps will get the chain up and running in your local environment and post the data to avail light client. Be sure to run the avail light node and modify the configuration as mentioned above.
