# Integrate CADA

This guide provides the essential steps to configure and integrate the CADA (Cosmos Avail DA) module with a Cosmos SDK-based application.

## Configuration

The default configuration file for the CADA module can be found [here](./config.md). Customize this file by updating the values to match your specific requirements.

## Validator Key and Keyring Type Setup

To set up the cada, users must configure their `validatorKey` and `keyringType` in the [config.yaml](/chainclient/config.yaml) file:

- **validatorKey**: This is the name of the key associated with the validator node. Replace `"alice"` with your specific validator's key.

- **keyringBackend**: Defines where the key is stored. Common options are `"test"` for testing or `"os"` for using the OS keyring in production.

## Integration with SDK-Based Applications

To integrate CADA into your Cosmos SDK-based application, follow these steps:

- Ensure you are using the latest version of Go for full compatibility.
- Add the CADA module to your application's app.go file.
- Modify the [config.yaml](/chainclient/config.yaml) file with validator and keyring setup.
- Modify the [configuration file](./config.md) to set how data is posted to the Avail network.

For a detailed walkthrough,refer to this [integration guide](./integration.md).

## Integrating CADA with Spawn-Generated Code

For detailed instructions on integrating the CADA module into code generated by `spawn`, please refer to the [integration guide](./spawn.md).

## To run CADA on local 

To run the CADA module locally, follow these steps:

1. **Initialize the Chain**: Use the provided [script](/simapp/init-chain.sh) to set up the chain for local development. Run the following command:

```bash
bash /simapp/init-chain.sh
```

After the initialization process is complete, you can start the chain by running:

```sh
cada start
```

These steps will get the chain up and running in your local environment and post the data to avail light client. Be sure to run the avail light node and modify the configuration as mentioned above.

